Architects have to become more than just
designers of two-dimensional facades or
or three-dimensional architectural
objects we have to become designers of
ecosystems systems of both ecology and
economy the channel not only the flow of
people through our cities and buildings
but also the flow of resources like heat
energy waste and water into these sort
of perpetual motion in jism sort of them
stop seeing at our presence like the
human presence on planet earth as a sort
of a detrimental to our ecosystem but
actually tries to sort of integrate and
incorporate our consumption patterns and
our leftovers into into our natural
environment the reason for this sort of
expanded role of the architect is
because of the the atmosphere you
capture in this image it was it was
taken at the cop15 the United Nations
conference on climate change in
Copenhagen a year and a half ago and as
you can see on you know Sarkozy and
brown and maggle and even Obama
it wasn't exactly a party it was like it
was a complete failure essentially none
of the goals that have been established
for the for the meeting were met and the
generals our discussion about
sustainability was sort of drowning in
this sort of general misconception that
sustainability is a question of how much
of our existing quality of life are we
prepare to sacrifice in order to afford
becoming sustainable almost like this
sort of a Protestant idea that has to
hurt to do good but sustainability can't
be like a some kind of a moral sacrifice
or a political dilemma or even like a
feel and Tropical course it has to be a
design challenge so when we were sort of
recently asked to do the danger per
million for the Shanghai World Expo that
was focusing on sustainable cities we
try to ask ourselves if there was
another sustainability then this sort of
sad depressing one we try to ask
ourselves
if we could find examples where
sustainable cities and buildings
actually increase life quality so we
decided to make the pavilion as a sort
of condensation of how Danis CDs through
their sustainable designs actually
increased life quality
we concede of the pavilion as a sort of
loop of a Danish Street complete with
the blue bicycle lanes of Copenhagen
because in Copenhagen 37% of the
Karina's commute by bike
so people visiting could actually feel
how cool it is to ride a bike through
the city instead of sitting in a traffic
jam or looking industry for a parking
spot also in in Copenhagen our harbour
water has become so clean that you can
swim in it so you don't have to like
take the past four hours to go to the
Hamptons you can actually jump in the in
the port so at the heart of the pavilion
really allowed the visitors to
experience on their own bodies how clean
if not how cold the Danish Harbor water
is and and in the middle of this sort of
a Harbor bath we decided to place the
little mermaid of Denmark not a copy of
the mermaid we actually moved her to
China we had to rest her out of the
hands of the Danish equivalent of the
tea party who was trying to pass a law
specifically against moving a mermaid we
had to get her through Chinese customs
and there she is
in her absence we invited the Chinese
artist Ai Weiwei to sort of install an
installation he installed a Chinese
surveillance camera it's the same
Chinese surveillance camera that the
Chinese state has installed in front of
his house this one however it was part
of an installation he called the mermaid
exchange it was transmitting a live
image to a giant flat screen so that the
the Copenhagen tourist event ingrain
what's 11:00 see that she was alright
but so more importantly for the six
months of the duration of the Expo it
became like this sort of a the only sort
of TV feed from China to the rest of the
world transmitting a sort of an
uncensored live footage almost turning
Copenhagen into the sort of global
speaker's corner
for China sadly I Weiwei has now been
sort of a silence like this sort of
critical voice of China has actually
been captured by the by the government
that has been missing for the last six
weeks but sort of back in the in the
pavilion you can say like to sum it up
what we wanted to try to do was to show
how essentially sustainable life can be
more fun than normal life and as a sort
of litmus test this is the first image
we published of the of the Danish
pavilion if you sort of noticed the red
rectangle this is the first image of one
of the first images published of Iron
Man 2 showing Tony Stark's mad science
Expo and if you sort of compare the two
rectangles this is Hollywood and this is
Shanghai so first of all like this is a
this is big business it's America the
land of litigation we should we should
sue them and get rich but then we
thought some of them cuckoo chanel said
that copying is the highest form of
compliment and if you know Hollywood
starts living off sustainable
architecture to portray science fiction
it could be a sign that we're moving
towards hedonistic sustainability so
sort of another sort of idea we've been
working on to try to sort of bring this
idea of how like oxygen
and can actually sort of be more sort of
environmentally aware but also increase
live quality as starting the project we
call the mountain in Copenhagen it's
essentially a combination of a big
parking building and an apartment
building but the parking creates a
man-made Mountain that lifts all the
apartments up in the Sun and the view
creating these sort of houses with
Gardens but in the middle of the of the
density we call this idea architectural
alchemy because it's this idea that by
mixing traditional ingredients like
parking and apartments you can actually
create if not gold then at least sort of
added value we took this idea one step
further in a project in Copenhagen where
sort of by mixing shops and offices
townhouses and apartments putting them
in a sub stack where they occupy their
favorite position distorting the block
to sort of maximise views for the
apartments and access to sunlight we
created this sort of a building we call
the eighth house named after its shape
and and this sort of approach doesn't
only allow us to optimize the individual
position of the different parts of the
program like leaving shops and offices
on the street lifting the town houses
with Gardens up into the sunshine but it
also sort of allows public life which is
traditionally restricted to occurring on
street level to actually invade the
three-dimensional space of the urban
block so the eighth house in Copenhagen
is not a you know a two dimensional
facade design or even a three
dimensional architectural object it's
sort of a three dimensional urban
condition that allows you know public
life the possibility for spontaneous
social encounters to actually invade the
the normally private space of the urban
block and reach the the penthouse of the
of the city so this this building is is
at the edge of Copenhagen basically at
the city limits so you have this little
clash of life-forms the the sort of the
last idea you can say like in the eighth
house it's essentially like a private
developer project built for like private
apartments and townhouses but somehow it
has this sort of generosity
towards the city that it invites public
life into it this sort of idea of public
participation we took one step further
in a project we did for the new city
hall in Tallinn we thought that instead
of having this sort of traditional
dichotomy of the politicians inside and
the public outside we would sort of
hover the city hall above the ground
allowing the the public to invade the
grounds law and what we call the public
service marketplace where they can
interact with the public servants and
the immunes sort of see the politicians
at work we called it the public village
because it's essentially like an
accumulation of all of the different
departments have their own building they
sort of a Co a sort of merge to form a
sort of a single consolidated village in
one place we invited the people of
challenge who sort of access the roof
and enjoy the panorama of the of the
surrounding city and finally in the
master plan they wanted a tower because
like in Europe it's hard to imagine a
City Hall without a tower so we thought
like what are we going to do with the
tower we thought like why don't we place
the City Council inside the tower so we
created this incredibly generous space
for political reflection the ceiling is
made as a giant mirror so that when the
politicians have to make difficult
decisions all they have to do is look up
and they get this sort of periscope Hill
overview of the city that they're
actually messing with
but but as a sort of side effect when
the angry citizens gather to demonstrate
they get this sort of perfect insight
they can see you know if if politicians
are missing if they're sleeping is
they're playing Angry Birds
so we called it the democratic periscope
that combines political overview with
public insight and and to our extreme
luck the City Council like the idea and
we're now building this sort of a sort
of an architectural realization of
radical political transparency so these
are three ideas we try to bring together
in in what is until now our sort of a
biggest biggest project it sort of
combines the sort of idea of hedonistic
sustainability with the sort of
architectural alchemy and the sort of
notion of public participation it's
located within a master plan we were
commissioned by the ten municipalities
of metropolitan Copenhagen to do a plan
according to like along the new train
line that would connect all of the
municipalities but we proposed in return
to say why why just focus on on
Copenhagen or even Denmark right on the
other side of the earth sound
Wolters we have Sweden southern Sweden
it's sort of the the most densely
populated and most sort of economically
active region in Scandinavia and by
adding a symbol three mile bridge we
could actually connect it all into a
sort of a single by national
metropolitan region where no area is
further away than 40 minutes by public
transportation and it wouldn't just be
like an infrastructure for for party
transportation it will also be
infrastructure for waste management for
water management for for energy
combining a smart grid that combines
hydroelectricity from Sweden with wind
power from from Denmark it connects all
of the most prosperous businesses in the
entire region and the sort of vices of
merging it and making the sort of
binational master plan we also
introduced pink in a flag for the first
time it has exactly the same size as the
San Francisco Bay Area so it is actually
a quite likely
sort of a regional planning size just
because of the national boundaries the
sort of holistic perspective has never
been applied and our idea was to instead
of like focusing on the individual
infrastructures to actually merge it all
so that the train line is also the first
phase densification of the downtown
areas the Train really stops at the
heart of the different neighborhoods and
finally since we're combining industry
commerce and residential we were
proposing that perhaps the excess energy
from the power production of the
industry could become like human
programs like thermal baths so this this
could sound like sort of science fiction
or the Jetsons but sort of to take it to
something really tangible this is going
to be the first building that we're
completing within the loop city it's a
waste to energy plant in Copenhagen we
only landfill four percent of our waste
as an example in Chicago it's 85 percent
42 percents gets recycled and 54 percent
is essentially used as fuel to create
heat and an electricity 97% of the homes
in Copenhagen have district heating so
they don't spend any energy and heating
in a very cold country they get it all
as excess heat from the power production
and essentially they form this loop that
the people give their trash to the
inspiration plant and they get it back
as power so as a thumb rule three kilos
of household trash turns into four hours
of electricity and five hours of heating
and just to give you an idea of this
resource one ton of waste is almost two
barrels of oil but essentially this is
this is a power plant like any other
it's a big ugly boxy factory that the
cast shadows on the neighbors and and
block the view so the city won it
because it's located in downtown Canaan
to somehow try to make it beautiful it
should be a gift to the city set the CEO
of the of the plant and so this is not
only going to be the biggest building in
copenhagen it's also going to be the
tallest it's going to be more than 350
feet tall and it's located right in the
middle of the historical city you can
see this the Opera the Royal Theatre
downtown and that's what it's going it's
right make sure the sort
Copenhagen marina and right in front of
it there's something called the
Copenhagen cable track which is a track
that pulls wakeboarders and water skiers
around in this sort of perpetual loop of
water fun
and speaking of skiing Copenhagen has
loved skiing but unfortunately
Copenhagen is flat as a pancake we have
the snow but we don't have the hills so
we happily go by hours on buses to the
south of Sweden and so we thought you
know if if Copenhagen doesn't have
mountains at least we have mountains of
trash so why don't we like transplant
one of the Swedish ski slopes and put it
on the roof of the of the factory so
essentially we know the size of the of
the machines so we create this sort of
minimum envelope they wanted to make a
Visitor Center which essentially is a
place where schoolteachers drag the
children to force them to listen to how
trash turns into energy instead we
propose to install an elevator that
takes you to the roof where you can
choose between a green a blue and a
black ski slope and because it's
man-made we can make sure that it ends
up at the foot of the elevator to create
a sort of perpetual loop of a skiing
miraculously we we actually won the
competition based on this idea the the
roof material is a form of artificial
carpet that all the rainwater that drops
on the mountain can be sort of is
collected and can be blowed out in these
humidifiers that in the summer can
actually create so little friction that
with normal skiing equipment you can
actually ski creating this of nice
Brazilian hybrid of bikini skiing but
but in the winter we do have three to
four months of frost and snow so sort of
from 2015 you're going to have to look
out for the Danish competitors in alpine
skiing
the you know originally the competition
was to make the factory look good so we
also had to do a facade we proposed to
make it out of these giant planters made
out of recycled plastics the the excess
water runs through the facade watering
the plants so that in the summer we
create this sort of natural shade that
it turns the working space of the
factory into this of nice naturally
illuminated and naturally ventilated
work space at night you see the machines
working inside the factory so you can
say like the sort of initial vision of
you know trying to design our cities and
buildings as eco systems is quite close
to materializing in this project because
like not only locally does the soviet
reuse of the water the the daylight the
natural ventilation but also in a sort
of more regional perspective together
with copenhagen and the rest of the loop
city the plant actually forms an
ecosystem as the last thing they were
imagining they wanted some kind of a
building integrated add project and
traditionally what you do is you hire
some light artists to blow colored
lights at the building at night we
thought why don't we play with the
resources we have this is going to be
the cleanest waste-to-energy plant in
the world the smoke coming out of the
chimney is completely non-toxic but it
still does contain some co2 a lot less
than the current plan but it does
contain some of it so we thought like
why don't we design the mouth of the
chimney in such a way that it sort of
feels gradually with co2 and when it
contains 100 kilos it compresses and
puffs a giant smoke ring
so we can we can play with it at night
but of course like on one hand we like
it a kiss like it's almost like the
ultimate artistic expression of
hedonistic sustainability you take the
the simple of the problem the pollution
the chimney and and turn it into
something playful but but more
importantly one of the main drivers of
behavioral change is knowledge that if
people don't know they can't act and
when my nephews ask me you know what's a
ton of co2 I have to say yeah I don't
have a clue in 2015 I can tell them to
count 10 smoke wings and when they've
counted 10 of them we have just emitted
one ton of co2 so so you can say like
the the waste-to-energy planet
Copenhagen is not only sort of
economically and ecologically
sustainable by turning waste into energy
it's also socially sustainable because
it turns a power plant into a park and
turns a flat land into a sort of a
man-made Mountain for for skiing so as
the last thing you might object that
this is something that can only happen
in sort of a sunny semi socialist
sentimental Scandinavia but just to wrap
it up recently we got approached by
Durst fitnah a residential of Manhattan
to look at this side on the west side
waterfront it's quite far away from the
nearby parks it's right next to the
Helena a building owned by our client
named after his daughter and normally
residential in the area looks like this
sort of extruded boxes we thought why
don't we know having spent ten years of
my career as an architect trying to
escape the tyranny of the Copenhagen
courtyard as a typology we thought that
maybe in Manhattan this idea of creating
an urban oasis at the heart of the block
could be interesting if you liked the
Copenhagen coal shard is at the
architectural scale what Central Park is
at an urban scale a human habitat
surrounded by a dense wall of of people
so we asked ourselves what happens when
you combine a skyscraper with a
courtyard essentially what would a
quartz Kleber look like so first we
place the core dad next to the Hellena
we try to preserve all of its views to
be a good neighbor but also because it
is our clients building and then
in the northeast corner to create
density and views we lift it up to 450
feet creating this sort of a warped
perimeter block that has views and and
sunshine from the from the west side and
what happens is that you can say
traditionally perimeter blocks are
courtyards are secrets kept for the
tenants in this case it really becomes
the main facade of the building towards
the highway almost showing how the
rejuvenation of the waterfront moves
into the city fabric itself and the the
wharf geometry also brings daylight to
the to the streetscape and finally that
all of the apartments are rotated
towards the view creating this sort of a
pattern of balconies but also allowing
the residents to recognize their own
apartment almost as a building within
the building and of course people living
next to the roof have these nice views
of the Hudson so because of the
incredible asymmetry that the code that
really goes from 42 inches to 400 feet
and back down again so this has been
sort of a pass forward it has been sort
of a well received and according to plan
and and sometimes even in architecture
things happen according to plan we
should be breaking ground the first of
September this year so so so you can see
like some of the sort of a some of the
sort of architectural evolution we've
been conducting in Scandinavia it's now
started starting to crossbreed with sort
of New York typology
to finish off this is what it could look
like driving down the West Side Highway
in in four years here mob that Brooklyn
down down in Tribeca right next to the
narrow but I'll be hood forever
truck and since i made it here i can
make it anywhere
get a love me everywhere I used to cop
in Harlem olamide's in meeting Connells
right the elbow broadway pull me back to
that mcdonalds cook into my stash spot
560 space street
catch me in the kitchen like the simmons
whipping pastry batch we're living it
wrong in the world trade Romney became
your compliment in piously
you